#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
= Installing Sinthgunt =
This page describes how to install Sinthgunt on 
  * Ubuntu 8.10/9.04
  * openSuse 11
  * Fedora 10
  * (Planned) Debian 4
  * (Planned) Mandriva 2009.1

For instructions on how to install ffmpeg, please visit this [http://code.google.com/p/sinthgunt/wiki/Installation_ffmpeg page].
== Ubuntu 8.10/9.04 ==
===Installation using a .deb package===
Download that latest .deb package from [http://code.google.com/p/sinthgunt/source/browse/#svn/trunk/deb this folder].
Then, install Sinthgunt by issuing the command
{{{
sudo dpkg -i sinthgunt-*.deb
}}}
===Installation from source===
To install Sinthgunt,
  * Download the latest source snapshot by issuing the command
{{{
svn checkout http://sinthgunt.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ sinthgunt
}}}
  * To install Sinthgunt, issue the command
{{{
sudo python setup.py install
}}}
===Running Sinthgunt===
To run Sinthgunt, type
{{{
sinthgunt.py
}}}
in a console. Then, open a video file, select a preset and press convert.
== openSuse 11 ==
   * Add the Packman repository (eg. at [http://packman.jacobs-university.de/suse/11.0/ http://packman.jacobs-university.de/suse/11.0/]) to YaST.
   * Install some nessecary packages
{{{
yast -i python-devel ffmpeg subversion
}}}
   * Download the latest source snapshot
{{{
svn checkout http://sinthgunt.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ sinthgunt
}}}
   * Install Sinthgunt by running (as root from the sinthgunt directory)
{{{
python setyp.py install
}}}
===Running Sinthgunt===
To run Sinthgunt, type
{{{
sinthgunt.py
}}}
in a console. Then, open a video file, select a preset and press convert.
==Fedora 10==
   * Add the rpmfusion repositories. Run as root
{{{
rpm -Uvh http://rpm.livna.org/livna-release.rpm  http://download1.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-stable.noarch.rpm  http://download1.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/rpmfusion-nonfree-release-stable.noarch.rpm
}}}
   * Install ffmpeg and subversion. Run as root
{{{
yum install ffmpeg subversion python-devel
}}}
   * Download the latest source snapshot
{{{
svn checkout http://sinthgunt.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ sinthgunt
}}}
   * Install Sinthgunt by running (as root from the sinthgunt directory)
{{{
python setyp.py install
}}}
===Running Sinthgunt===
To run Sinthgunt, type
{{{
sinthgunt.py
}}}
== Debian 4==
== Mandriva 2009.1==