#This page describes the steps made when releasing a new version of sinthgunt.

= Making a release =
Making a sinthgunt release involves four steps.
  # Create packages
  # Upload packages
  # Update the releases page
  # Announce the release

= Creating packages =
   # Create a tarball using the script tarmaker.sh found in the trunk
{{{
sh tarmaker.sh
}}}
Rename the resulting file to
{{{
sinthgunt-x.y.z.tar.gz
}}}
where z (or y or x) is one larger than in the previous version.
  # Create a .deb package using the guide on [http://code.google.com/p/sinthgunt/wiki/Howto_Build_deb_package this page]. Name the package 
{{{
sinthgunt-x.y.z.deb
}}}
  # (Planned) Create a .rpm package. Name the package 
{{{
sinthgunt-x.y.z.rpm
}}}

= Uploading packages =
Get the google upload script
{{{
wget http://support.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/scripts/googlecode_upload.py
}}}
Then upload the latest packages and tarball by issuing the commands:
  # Tarball
{{{
python googlecode_upload.py -s 'Sinthgunt x.y.z tarball' -p 'sinthgunt' -l 'Featured,Type-Archive,OpSys-Linux' sinthgunt-x.y.z.tar.gz
}}}
  # deb package
{{{
python googlecode_upload.py -s 'Sinthgunt x.y.z Debian package' -p 'sinthgunt' -l 'Featured,Type-Package,OpSys-Linux' sinthgunt-x.z.y.deb 
}}}
  # (Planned) rpm package
{{{
python googlecode_upload.py -s 'Sinthgunt x.y.z rpm package' -p 'sinthgunt' -l 'Featured,Type-Package,OpSys-Linux' sinthgunt-x.z.y.rpm 
}}}
= Updating the release page =
The [http://code.google.com/p/sinthgunt/wiki/Releases releases page] keeps track of the releases linking tarballs/deb/rpm packages to svn revisions. Keeping this page up to date is important since users will report bugs in package sinthgunt-x.y.z and without a complete list we will not know at which revision the error was introduced.

= Announcing a release =
Once the packages have been uploaded, the release should be announced. For small changes, sending an email to the mailing-list (sinthgunt@googlegroups.com) with a brief list of the changes is sufficient. Releases involving major changes should be announced at www.freshmeat.net and other relevant forums, blogs etc.
----
Hi,

This post announces the release of version x.y.z of sinthgunt. This
version adds support for the feature xxx and fixes the bugs yyy and zzz.

Web site:
www.sinthgunt.org

Downloads page:
http://code.google.com/p/sinthgunt/downloads/list

Source tree:
http://code.google.com/p/sinthgunt/source/browse/

Thank you,
- JD
----